so this
artificial feeder is a big success
brightly coloured down here
and containing sugar solution artificial
nectar
up there
but hummingbirds also use their ability
to see
color in a different way to attract
a mate
[Music]
but this male costa's hummingbird uses
his colors to send
a secret message
out in the open flashy colors can
attract unwanted attention
so he keeps them hidden most of the time
a slight turn of the head however
provides a tantalizing glimpse
of what he has to offer
he spotted a female she's feeding
[Music]
hummingbirds live fast lives and need
plenty of fuel
so if he is to attract her attention he
needs something eye-catching
time to reveal his colors
erecting the iridescent feathers on his
neck he positions himself
to catch the sunlight
seeing at just the right angle his
colors are dazzling
[Music]
aerobatics like these take a lot of
energy
so his performance can give her clues
about his health
and fitness
every second she takes to decide burns
up his
energy reserves
so he can only hover for so long
[Music]
at last his colors have persuaded her